# DailyChecker

## Name: Kai Britzman
* Name: GitHub username: KaiBritzman
#### Video Demo:  <URL HERE>
#### Link to GitHub Repo: https://github.com/KaiBritzman/DailyChecker-Project
#### Description: 

My project is a to-do list website that allows users to make a to-do-list for tasks that they need to do. This can be used for daily life like cleaning the car, doing the washing, going shopping etc. It can also be used to help ahcieve big goals like starting a business, losing weight or making a big project. This is what the websites main intention is. While it can be used recreationally, it's encourged to be used for professional and more life changing uses. What makes this website different from others is it gamifys the process. Many other to-do-list websites/apps don't offer this, they just offer convenience, as you typically physically write down your tasks. I got inspired by liftoff and critique AI. Liftoff is an app that lets users track their workouts like reps(repeitions of a movement) and sets on different exercises. It uses a rank system to encourge users to progress on their excerises by adding weight or reps. Critique AI is similar in which you achieve ranks based on tasks you complete and how you progress in the gym. These software however are much more tailored to specific things like gym progession and improving your mindset. My website however is for any major goal you want to achieve (like earning more money, losing weight, starting a real estate empire etc), but is also tailored to the gym and building habits. 

For my website, it's got an interface which is easy to navigate and use. The center has the name of the website (DailyChecker) then has a box which users use to input the tasks they want. When they click the button underneath this box which says "Create task", it will make a button with your task. You then need to click it and it will turn green, and reward you 10xp. Before, I had it where buttons where already made for the users, they just needed to change the text by double clicking it. I made this choice so users can easily enter in their tasks and complete them when they can. However I decided against this. This is because I ran into issues where the button would turn green when users double clicked it. It was an issue I couldn't solve, so I decided to make users input their tasks and the website creates buttons with that text. This worked and I prefer it overall aesthetically. I also have the main component of what makes this website unquie, the leveling system, in the top left corner. This is so its out of the way of the main interactivity, but made it big enough so users can notice it. I have the level, which starts at one, and the XP below which shows how much XP users have after the last level achieved. With this gameification, you get to see two different types of progress. You get progress in game by leveling up, the higher the level means the more tasks you completed, and progres in real life by seeing your business open for it's open day or whatever your main goal is. 

My project has one folder which contains multiple files. The first one is index.html. This file is where the main design of the website is. This is where my title, headings and aesthetics go. Then theres my styles.css file. This is where I have CSS code, where I can choose the style of the website. This is where I can make text centeral, change colours and properties. I then have a index.JS file. This is where my JavaScript goes. It contains the code which lets users create buttons, level up and make users tasks green when clicked on. This where all functionaility/interactivity goes. I have three seperate files for better organisation and it's best practice for larger projects. Having one file with a mixture of HTML, JavaScript and CSS may be overwhelming and it may be harder to spot buys in the code. So, having all the different coding languages in seperate files allows me to focus on each specific component one at a time. Also, much larger projects at big corporations will have thousands of lines of code and multiple functions and pages. Having all that on one file may make the file too big in terms of bytes (GigaByte, MegaByte etc) and it will be near impossible to locate specific sections of the code you want, and it will be very hard to find errors. So overall, it's best practice to make multiple files for manageaibility. 


#### TODO list:
Create main HTML: Create the visuals of the website like the title, subheadings

Do CSS styling: Create a CSS file and start making aesthetic visuals and position stuff in a way thats easy to use

Create interactivity: Create a JavaScript file and create functionaility like the leveling and XP system, user input and the creation of buttons and turning them green once clicked
